A. Details on training UNICORN
1) Contact dataset generation: Since predicting contacts
between distant or fully overlapping objects is trivial, we prior-
itize sampling near-contact object configurations to encourage
our model to learn informative representations. To achieve
this, we follow CORN [17] and randomly sample two objects
from the object dataset and position each object at a random
SE(3) pose. Since this initial placement is unlikely to result in
objects in colliding configurations, we first move the objects
tangent to each other by measuring the shortest displacement
between the two objects, and translating one of the objects by
that amount so that they come into contact with each other.
Afterward, we apply a small Gaussian noise to the poses so
that the objects either slightly clip into each other or narrowly
remain collision-free.
After positioning the objects, we generate the point clouds
and contact labels. We sample the point clouds uniformly from
the surface of each object, then label the points based on
whether they fall within the other object. Since computing
point-mesh intersection is often unreliable, we first apply con-
vex decomposition to each object, then compute whether each
point falls within any of the other object’s convex parts, and
vice versa. Overall, this procedure yields approximately half of
the dataset comprising objects in colliding configurations, with
the other half in near-contact configurations; the representation
model must learn to distinguish the two scenarios. We iterate
this procedure to generate a dataset comprising 500,000 point
cloud pairs and their contact labels.
2) Details on pretraining pipeline: The contact decoder
is a three-layer conditional MLP (CMLP), where each layer
is a residual block with conditional batch normalization
(CBN) [65]. CBN transforms each layer’s output features by
applying batch normalization, whose affine parameters are
mapped from the conditioning input zB
N with a single linear
layer.
During training, we apply data augmentation by rotating,
translating, and scaling both clouds, plus a small Gaussian
noise. After patchifying the point clouds, we adjust the propor-
tion of the inputs to the contact decoder so that approximately
half of the input pairs are in contact (positive). This is done
by resampling the positive patches with probability f/P and
negative patches with probability (1−f)/N, where f denotes
the target fraction of positive labels, P denotes the number
of positive patches, and N denotes the number of negative
patches. The hyperparameters for pretraining are in Table IV.

Hyperparameter Value
Batch size 1024
Optimizer SAM [32]
Learning rate schedule cosine
Base learning rate 0.0002
Min. learning rate 1e-6
Max. gradient norm 1,000
Weight decay 0.001
Rotational augmentation (−π, +π)
Translational augmentation (-0.1, +0.1)
Scale augmentation (e−1,e+1)
Noise augmentation 0.01
Positive patch fraction 0.5
Decoder size (128, 128)